---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Extensive games with incomplete information"
---


### Lecture Videos

We now move on to extensive games with incomplete information. These games are equivalent to extensive games with imperfect information (unobserved actions, rather than unobserved types) and “chance” moves by nature, and we will talk about such games only in these terms. The main difference to Bayesian games is that players move sequentially and learn during the game, and the challenge is then to model how players learn and what beliefs they hold at each stage of the game.


1. In the first video (link), I provide a motivating example that illustrates the kind of challenges that we encounter when dealing with extensive games with incomplete information.  In particular, I point to two new requirements that will lie at the heart of the equilibrium notion that we will need for such games: sequential rationality and belief consistency.
2. In the second video (link), I define and discuss the notion of “sequential rationality”.
In the third video (link), I define and discuss the notion of “belief consistency”.
The fourth video (link provides a general definition of weak perfect Bayesian equilibrium, and I provide some context and illustrate one of its weaknesses with an example.
3. The last two videos provide examples of extensive games with incomplete information
    1. Example 1: “Card Game”
    2. Example 2: “Spence’s Signalling game”

There are more nice examples one Wikipedia that you can use to practice your understanding:
1. Gift game 1
2. Gift game 2
3. Repeated public-good game
4. Reputation game
5. Education game (a variation of the game in Example 2)
6. Beer-Quiche game .

Readings:
- Chapter 10 in Osborne, M. J. (2009). An Introduction to Game Theory. Oxford University Press
- Chapter 4 in Gibbons, R. (1992). Game Theory for Applied Economists. Princeton University Press.

Additional Resources:
Wikipedia: Signalling Games: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signaling_game
Wikipedia: Perfect Bayesian Equilibrium https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_Bayesian_equilibrium
Wikipedia: Extensive games https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensive-form_game#Incomplete_information
v